---
layout: post
title: OFW Watch
categories: [Miscellaneous]
tags: [OFW Watch, Myrna Padilla, Dan Backus, Mynd Consulting]
date: 2018-02-02 08:20:00 PM UTC
published: false
---

<!-- January 2, 2018 00:00:00 AM Philippine Time -->


Today, January 2, 2018, at about 3:00 PM, was the launching of the OFW Watch app in Mynd Consulting's office in Davao.

This app, which is available for Android devices, iPhone, and the web, was made by my coleagues at Mynd Consulting. It is part of the advocacy of Mynd Consulting's founder and president, Ma'am Myrna Padilla, on helping OFW's solve some of their problems. --- _An app that will help "empower OFWs"_ is what they call it. --- Ma'am Myrna herself is a former OFW, so she has a big heart for her fellow OFWs, and that is the reason why this app was created.

<!--more-->


There were people with high positions in the government who came: the representative of OFWs in congress was there; the vice mayor of Davao City also came. I cannot remember all the names and positions in government of the guests. Perhaps their pictures will be posted in the facebook page of OFW Watch or Mynd Consulting, so if you are interested you can just search for them there. Also people from the Rotary club of Davao 2000, where our president Ma'am Myrna Padilla is a member, came.

This picture below is the only thing I got... This was during the _unveiling of the app_ session.


<!-- 
Someone in the audience told me that this kind of app 
 -->



The thing which made me write this post are the words of our president, Ma'am Myrna, during the demo session. The features of the app was presented by our project manager, Paul Domag. During the presentation Ma'am Myrna would sometimes interrupt the presentation just to give more details about _why_ a particular feature was included in the app.

During the presentation of the "Work Journal" feature of the app, Ma'am Myrna told about her story of her being badly treated by some of her employers in the past, when she was still an OFW. She often get emotional when telling stories like this. She said that in one instance, she was locked in a room. So she looked for paper and write down something, and throw it out the window, hoping that someone will find it if something bad will happen to her.

In her other job, she was was made to sleep in the kitchen even during winter. And this happened during her first days at work. She said that people might say that she could have just ran away from that employer and go home and find another job, but that thing was hard to do, because if she goes home, it will be hard and time consuming and expensive for her to get another contract to work abroad.

She choose to endure that kind of treatment just to keep her job, and... this is the best part... she still did the best work that she can with her job even when her employer was not treating her very well, because she was thinking about the next OFW who will work for that employer. She said that if she will not do her best work, her employer might still treat other OFWs badly and they might say that Filipinos are not good workers. She did not want that to happen.

Wow! This is the kind of attitude that we need in our leaders --- this heart of helping other people. I think this kind of attitude is what made President Duterte win the hearts of many Filipinos.

Another reason, she said, why she was still doing a good work even thought she was treated badly by her employer was because she want the employer to long for the kind of worker like her when she is already gone to work for another employer.

Wow! That is a special kind of attitude, I think :smile:, because that is an attitude that I do not have, but want to have.

When I heard those words, I remembered what my brother-in-law said about what a teacher told them in the past... it was about the verse in the Bible about stoning with stones and bread... it went something like this (not exact words): "If you want to hurt those people who hurt you, do good to them, because the guilt that they will feel when you do good to them will be greater than the hurt you can possibly inflict them with if you do bad to them also."

... And... they might become your friends eventually!




<!-- 
What could have driven these people to treat others like that?

I don't know.
 -->


