---
layout: post
title: Books I read in 2018
categories: [Miscellaneous]
tags: [Book]
date: 0001-01-01 12:00:00 AM UTC
published: true
---

<!-- February 21, 2018 04:00:00 AM Philippine Time -->


**NOTE: This is a work in progress --- the reason why the date is Jan 1, 0001.** :smile:



Following what [John Sonmez](https://simpleprogrammer.com/) is doing, [I started listing the books I read the entire year.](/2018/01/31/books-i-read-in-2017)

Here is my list in 2018:


### ["How to Win Friends and Influence People"](https://www.bookdepository.com/book/9780091906818?a_aid=jflaga) by Dale Carnegie

This is the third time, I think, I read this book.

The first and second<sup id="footnote-indicator-1">[[1]](#footnote-1)</sup> time is through an old pocket book (printed in January 1948!), which my father bought from a book sale. He gave it to me last 2006 I think. The first few pages hooked me. I must have thought, _"This will be one of those great guides in life!_"

Also, during the first missions conference at BFBS last 2007, I heard one of the preachers recommending it for Christians to read! That means that it's okay for Christians to read books like this!

And during my programmer years, I read John Sonmez recommending this book for programmers! I even found a programming job posting before where this book is a required reading if one is hired!

This is one of those books that are called "Self-Help" books. And I understand that these kinds of books are being criticised by some (link here to Albert Mohler's article on self-help books). Books like this might have some negative effects on people's way of thinking... but if you read this book, just try to get the good parts and apply it in your life. The bad parts, if any... just ignore them. :smile:


### ["The ManCode"](/memorabilia/books/the-mancode-quotes/) by Dr. Dennis Swanberg and Ron Smith

This is one of the first books I bought at BookSale<sup id="footnote-indicator-1">[[2]](#footnote-2)</sup>. The title is very interesting... I was thinking that it might help me become a _man_.

Here's a quote from the book:


> **You can't stand to be alone with yourself because you weren't created to be alone.** 
<br /><br />
> ... [But] you're not only wired to need a relationship with God, **you're also hardwired to want things your own way**.
<br /><br />
> ... To crack the ManCode, **you've got to decide who's in charge: you or God**.


### "True Riches" by Todd A. Sinelli

This is a short book --- about 70 pages long --- but it contains timeless treasures.

Here is one of those treasures:

> Whatever you apply money to can grow and flourish.
<br /><br />
> Sherman Smith, a pastor and business scholar, writes, "From my experiences in dealing with people and their finances, I have learned one important lesson: The way money is used determines whether it becomes a curse of a blessing."
<br /><br />
> When we take our money, **time**, talent, or treasures and share them with a person in need, with the church, or when we perform any act of selfless giving, we are **pouring energy** into these things and saying **"grow and flourish"**.
<br /><br />
> The opposite holds true. If we take our money and use it to buy drugs, filth, or unholy things, we are in essence giving energy to these items and saying "grow and flourish".


<!--more-->

### "The Lean Startup" by Eric Ries

This is the first book on business that I read (I think). It was recommended in [here](https://simpleprogrammer.com/2018/01/08/overcoming-obstacles-stoic-mindset/) as a help to becoming a [proactive](2018/01/11/proactive) person... so I bought a copy and read it.

I do not yet understand everything in this book. --- Some things whcihc stuck in my head: ... there was this Build-Measure-Learn feedback loop, and "The Five Whys". Stuffs in programming was also mentioned, such as XP and continuous deployment... of course, because the writer was a programmer. --- But it gave me an idea on how business people think. I will just read this book again later when I think I already need everything this book contains.

Here are some interesting quotes from the book:

> "You cannot trade quality for time."

> "At the root of every seemingly technical problem is a human problem."

> "... it's the boring stuff that matters the most."

> "Most of the time customers don't know what they want in advance."


### "Doing the Impossible" by Neil E. Jackson, Jr.

> "True love is the highest degree of motivation."

> "The secret to success is involvement."



### "The Tale of Three Kings: A study in brokeness" by Gene Edwards



### [Working Effectively with Legacy Code](https://www.bookdepository.com/Working-Effectively-with-Legacy-Code-Michael-Feathers/9780131177055?a_aid=jflaga) by Michael Feathers


I already read the first eight chapters [last 2017](2018-01-31-books-i-read-in-2017), but I decided to start reading this book from the beginning this 2018, because I wanted to remember and better understand the idea of _"seams"_, introduced in chapter 4, which is foundational in understanding the remaining part of the book.

I created a page for some interesting quotes from the book [here](/memorabilia/books/quotes-from-working-effectively-with-legacy-code/).



### Fatherless Generation

This is also one of the first books I bought at BookSale<sup id="footnote-indicator-1">[[2]](#footnote-2)</sup>. Interesting title... The title caught my attention because, when I was young, I heard (or read?) someone with no father longing to have a father.

I thought to myself, "Why do people with no father want to have a father? --- someone who spanks you, pointing out your mistakes, humiliate you in front of others... If only they knew that people who have fathers do not want to have a father they would stop wanting to have a father!" :laughing: Well, not everyone, of course. :smile:

Then I thought to myself that perhaps people (including me) just want to have things that they do not have... and that people do not want to have things that they have. People think that there is a state that is better than their current state...

Maybe not... Perhaps everyone just need a father --- a role model.


### "Rich Dad Poor Dad" by Robert T. Kiyosaki


### "How to Lead When You're Not In Charge" by Clay Scroggins

If "How to Win Friends and Influence People" is not a leadership book, then this, I think, is the first book I read about leadership.



----------

#### Footnotes:

<sup id="footnote-1">[1]</sup>
<small>I did not finish it on my second reading, I think. ([back ^](#footnote-indicator-1))</small>



<sup id="footnote-2">[2]</sup>
<small>... BookSale of SM City Davao... that was in late November 2017) --- starting that time, I regularly visit BookSale at SM City Davao hoping to find books like this --- books where I can learn things about life. ([back ^](#footnote-indicator-2))</small>

