---
layout: post
title: Books I read in 2017
categories: [Miscellaneous]
tags: [Books]
date: 2018-01-30 08:20:00 PM UTC
published: false
---

<!-- January 30, 2018 04:20:00 AM Philippine Time -->


Following what John Sonmez is doing, I will start listing the books that I read at the end of each year.


["Growing Object-Oriented Software, Guided By Tests" (GOOS)](https://www.bookdepository.com/book/9780321503626?a_aid=jflaga) by Steve Freeman and Nat Pryce

Learned about what they call Outside-In TDD (Or London Style TDD as what Emily Bache calls it) --- writing both End-to-End tests (also called functional tests or acceptance tests by others) and writing unit tests at the same time.

(Secret: I skipped some chapters in Part III because there are lots of code already and I find it hard to follow. I only wanted to heap general ideas during the time that I read this. But I'm going to read this book again...)


<!--more-->

Test-Driven Development with Python (first seven chapters only)

- Same idea presented in [GOOS](https://www.bookdepository.com/book/9780321503626?a_aid=jflaga) --- Outside-In TDD. But this is more of a tutorial-for-beginners kind of book, so it is easier to follow than [GOOS](https://www.bookdepository.com/book/9780321503626?a_aid=jflaga).

Some chapters of [24 Deadly Sins of Software Security](https://www.bookdepository.com/book/9780071626750?a_aid=jflaga)

Working Effectively with Legacy Code (only the first six chapters, and chapter 16)

Clean Architecture (Rough Cuts) - using Safari Books Online

The Clean Coder - using Safari Books Online





**Because this is the first time I list the books that I read, I will also include here some books that I read before 2017.**

## Books I read in 2016 (Some are just partially read)



The Rosie Project

The Ultimate Proof of Creation

Here I Stand: A Life of Martin Luther (first half only, will finish this later)

- I learned that Luther was just an ordinary monk who wanted to stand for the truth. But he became one of the very important figures in the Reformation.


## Some of the books I read in the past

The Answers Book (Red) of AnswersInGenesis (High School)

[Another book on the creation-evolution debate]  (High School)

The Answers Book (Blue) which was about the King James Bible

- Note: I used to be what they call a King Jame Only person, and this book was one of those things which convinced me to hold to this kind of position before. But I am not anymore...

The Trail of Blood booklet

- I also used to believe everything that was written in this booklet... but not anymore.


The Magic of Thinking Big (library of BFBS, 2006 or 2007)

[A Book on the Holy Spirit which Sir Ernest Mark Gapulan made me read, 2006 (I cannot remember the title anymore. But if I remember it correctly, it was written my Warren Weirsbe)]

How to Win Friends and Influence People (old pocket book, 2006-2007)

In His Steps (library of BFBS, 2005-2006)

[Learn Java in 24 Hours (library of NDKC)

[Chapter 1 :smile: of Head First Design Patterns (library of NDKC)]


**And these were some of the books that I read during those times when I was still stealing books (since about year 2008)**

[A book (or two) on C++ STL (I cannot remember the title anymore)]

Beginning C# 3.0: An Introduction to OOP

Pro C# 2008 and the NET 3.5 Platform

Beginning C# 2008 Databases

Data Structures in C#

Professional ADO.NET 3.5 with LINQ and the Entity Framework

Pro Entity Framework 4.0 (not sure if I finished this)

Pro Expression Blend 4 (not sure if I finished this)

Pro WPF in C# 2008 & Pro WPF in C# 2010

Pro ASP.NET in C# 2010, Fourth Edition (I think I only used this as a reference... I already read the previous edition, and these are large books... I'm not sure if I really spent time reading this when I already did read the )

Professional ASP.NET MVC 3

(Video Tutorial on ASP.NET MVC 3 from Pluralsight - http://www.asp.net/mvc/pluralsight)

Head First HTML with CSS & XHTML

Learning jQuery, Third Edition (not sure if I finished this)

Microsoft Silverlight 4 Business Application Development: Beginner's Guide (I think I only read only half of this. I consumed this because someone offered me to work on a project which will use Silverlight... but...)

Professional Test-Driven Development with C#

The first half(?) of Head First Design Patterns

Clean Code (only the first eight chapters)

The War of Art

Psycho-Cybernetics (was not able to finish this also)

The Power of Habit (not sure if I finished this)

etc.

